Sir, 

thank you so much for your kind help. I highly appreciate your support
for my research project. Your answers will be handled confidentially of
course and I will refer to you as an anonymous expert of Latvian policy
(except you wish to be mentioned by name, which I will then do of
course).

Feel free to say about as much or as little on the questions which
follow below. In some cases the topics overlap to a certain degree, so
please do not adhere to my qestion structure in case you find answering
two questions in one response would be more fitting. Hopefully the
questions are clear enough. 


Again, I'm very gratefull for your help

Regards, 

Pascal Bernhard


Questionaire:

1. Is the role of Gazprom & Itera and of Russian capital in general in
the Latvian energy market considered a problem? Is this situation viewed
similiarly by everyone or are there differing opinions?


2. What importance does gas market regulation and in particular
ownership unbundling have in Latvian energy policy? Is the status of
Latvijas Gāze as a monopoly supplier and a vertically integrated utility
seen as a problem in Latvian politics?


3. Are there major differences about gas market regulation among Latvian
parties, industry associations, and perhabs other civil society groups
(trade unions, ecological movements)?


4. Would you say that one can see certain guidelines or priorities in
Latvian energy policy over the last few years? More specifically, are
there any drivers of policy making one can detect? For example, the
'Energiewende' in Germany, the attempt to turn away from nuclear energy
and towards renewable, has been the general theme in German energy
policy. Is there anything similiar in Latvia?


5. In the official "Latvian Energy Long Term Strategy - 2030" the view
is expressed that energy policy primarily has to serve economic growth
and improve the competitiveness of Latvia's industry. The issue of
energy security and in particular diminishing the dependence on Russian
energy imports are considered less important. Would you confirm that
supply security takes a less prominent role in Latvian energy poliy than
do purely economic considerations?


6. What is your opinion on the nature of the policy making process? To
what degree are decisions made on technical grounds or on considerations
of daily politics? Do these decisions reflect a long-term vision or
could they be regarded as being the result of politicking and presumably
lobbying by interest groups? Could you give some indicators, why you
would describe Latvian energy policy one way or the other?


7. What do you think are the reasons that Latvia has delayed the
implementation of the EU Third Energy Package for so long? Using at
first an exemption in the directive as an 'energy island' for not
opening its market for competition and then only deciding on March 13rd
2014 to demand full ownership unbundling of Latvijas Gāze (while
Lithuania for example has done so in 2010).
